DRUG: OMEPRAZOLE
DESCRIPTION: acid reflux medication

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
Use(s) treats frequent heartburn (occurs 2 or more days a week) not intended for immediate relief of heartburn; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
Directions for adults 18 years of age and older this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days it may take 1 to 4 days for full effect; some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours 14-Day Course of Treatment swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water before eating in the morning take every day for 14 days do not take more than 1 tablet a day do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor swallow whole. Do not chew or crush tablets Repeated 14-Day Courses (if needed) you may repeat a 14-day course every 4 months do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor children under 18 years of age: ask a doctor. Heartburn in children may sometimes be caused by a serious condition.

WARNINGS:
Warnings Allergy alert: do not use if you are allergic to omeprazole omeprazole may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use if you have: trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadednes frequent chest pain These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have : had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn unexplained weight loss nausea or vomiting stomach pain Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs. Stop use and ask doctor if: your heartburn continues or worsens you need to take this product for more than 14 days you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months you get diarrhea you develop a rash or joint pain If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222)