--- Page 1 ---
6/9/26, 8:22 PM PLACES Data Portal | PLACES | CDC

PLACES: Local Data for Better Health

PLACES Data Portal

@

For Everyone

WHAT TO KNOW.

The PLACES Data Portal is an online data repository designed for individuals to access and Welcome to the 500 Cities & PLACES Data Portal

download PLACES datasets. This includes both the current and prior releases of PLACES Smal ave

data. Featured Content

Overview

Summary

The PLACES Data Portal includes PLACES and 500 Cities (2016-2019) data for all current and prior releases.

° The data include estimates on health outcomes, preventive service use, health risk behaviors, disabilities, health status, and health-related
social needs from the Behavioral Risk Factor and Surveillance System (BRFSS), as well as social determinants of health data from American
Community Survey.

° Each PLACES data release includes 8 datasets on 4 geographic levels (county, place, census tract, and ZIP Code tabulation area) and in 2
formats (opendata and GIS friendly).

The data are intended to help local health departments, policymakers, researchers, and members of the public understand the distribution of
health-related outcomes at a granular level.

* By doing so, it informs targeted public health interventions and resource allocation to improve community health. The portal allows users to
select, view, query, download datasets, or access through API for further analysis.

PLACES Data Portal |

You can access current release data, or access the entire PLACES Data Portal to search, select, view, query, and download PLACES data
from current and past releases.

https://www.cdc.gov/places/tools/data-portal.html

1/3


--- Page 2 ---
6/9/26, 8:22 PM

Q Search

Categories

Administrative

Biomonitoring

Center for Forecasting
and Outbreak Analytics

Chronic Diseases

Cancer Research
Gitation Search

500 Cities & Places

Assisted Reproductive
‘Technology (ART)

Healthy Aging

PLACES Data Portal | PLACES | CDC

Welcome to the 500 Cities & PLACES Data Portal

Related Links

‘Small Area Estimation Methodology | Small Area Estimation Validation | Boston Validation Study | Using 3 Health Surveys | Contact Us.

Featured Content

PLACES: Local Data for Better a
Health

External Content

PLACES provides model-based estimates for
chronic disease measures by county, place, census
tract and ZIP Code Tabulation Area (ZCTA).

PLACES: Local Data for Better ®
Health, County Data 2024 rel.

August 23,2024 487K Views

S2
ROS

This dataset contains model-based county
estimates. PLACES covers the entire United
States~50 states and the District of Columbia~a.

PLACES: Local Data for Better ®

Health, Census Tract Data 2.

August 23,2024 259K Views

This dataset contains model-based census tract
estimates. PLACES covers the entire United
‘States~50 states and the District of Columbia—a.

Pathway to Practice
(P2P) Resource Center
59 Results filtered by EXZEGMEaMGneEaeee | so

Sort by | MostRelevant
Maternal & Child
Health

PLACES: Local Data for Better Health, County Data 2024 release soocitiesepisces Dataset

Alcohol Related

—e This dataset contains model-based county estimates. PLACES covers the entire United States—50 states and the District Updated

Youth Risk Behaviors Views
ee 49660

on Tags behaviors, brfss, county, dsabilty health, and 6 more API Docs

Indicators

Use the PLACES Data Portal to view, query, and download PLACES datasets.

Intended Users

° Public Health Officials and Policymakers: To help allocate resources, plan interventions, and set priorities based on the specific health needs
of communities.

* Community and Rural Health Agencies: To identify and address the unique health, social, and resource needs of rural communities.

° National non-governmental and community-based organizations: To better understand prevention practices and health behaviors of the
communities they serve for development of targeted interventions.

° Emergency Preparedness and Response Officials: To understand and anticipate the particular needs of communities affected by an
emergency or disaster.

* Hospitals, Healthcare Providers, Organizations, and Systems: To better understand the health profiles of the communities they serve.
° Health Insurance Plans: To better understand the health risks, conditions, and prevention practices of the communities they serve.

° Researchers and Academics: To access detailed local health data for studies and analyses.

° General Public: To allow individuals to learn more about the health statistics of their own communities or others.

By providing this level of detail in its data offerings, PLACES helps decision makers make informed actions towards improving public health at
the local level.

How-to guides

Welcome to the 500 Cities & PLACES Data Portal How To Use the PLACES Data Portal

Related Links Use this guide to explore and learn how to use the PLACES data
Small Area Estimation Methodology | Small Area Estimation Validation | Boston Validation Study

portal.
Featured Content
NOV. 6, 2024
PLACES: Local Data for Better [2 PLACES: Local Data for Better ®
Health Health, County Data 2024 re
Eternal Content ‘August 23,2004 487K Views

it.<#9 PLACES

PLACES provides model-based estimates for
chronic disease measures by county, place, census
‘tract and ZIP Code Tabulation Area (ZCTA).

This dataset contains model-based county
estimates. PLACES covers the entire United
States~50 states and the District of Columbia~a.

PLACES Methodology and FAQs

https://www.cdc.gov/places/tools/data-portal.html

2/3


--- Page 3 ---
6/9/26, 8:22 PM PLACES Data Portal | PLACES | CDC

Visit the Methodology page for more information about PLACES methodology, or the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) page to get
answers to common questions about PLACES data.

SOURCES

CONTENT SOURCE:

National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

https://www.cdc.gov/places/tools/data-portal.html 3/3


